README.md, before:

#  ndd (Non-De-Duplicated)

## Problem

Rust (or, rather, LLVM) by default de-duplicates or reuses `static` data and its parts. For most
purposes that is good: The result binary is smaller, and because of more successful cache hits the
execution may be faster.

However, that is counter-productive when the code identifies/compares `static` data by reference
(whether a Rust reference/slice, or a pointer/pointer range). For example, an existing Rust/3rd
party API may accept ("ordinary") references/slices. You may want to extend that API's
protocol/behavior with signalling/special handling when the client sends in a designated `static` by
reference/slice/pointer/pointer range. Your special handler may cast such references/slices to
pointers and compare them by address with
[`core::ptr::eq`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/ptr/fn.eq.html).

But you don't want the client, nor the compiler/LLVM, to reuse/share the memory address of such a
designated `static` for any other ("ordinary") `static` or `const` values/expressions. That does
work out of the box when the client passes a reference/slice defined as `static`: It seems that
(with the default `release` optimizations) each static gets its own memory space. See a test
[`src/lib.rs` -> `addresses_unique_between_statics()`](src/lib.rs).

However, it is a problem (in release mode) with ("ordinary") `const` values/expressions that equal
in value to the designated `static`. Rust/LLVM uses the `static` address for references to the same
value defined as `const`. See a test [`src/lib.rs` ->
`addresses_not_unique_between_const_and_static()`](src/lib.rs).

## Solution

`ndd:NonDeDuplicated` uses
[`core::cell::Cell`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/cell/struct.Cell.html) to hold the data
passed in by the user. The only access it gives to the inner data is through shared references.
There is no mutation access. (If the inner data allows interior mutability, then it can't implement
[`core::marker::Send`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/marker/trait.Send.html), and then
`NonDeDuplicated` doesn't implement `Send` either and it can't be stored in a `static`.)

Unlike `Cell` (and friends), `NonDeDuplicated` **does** implement
[`core::marker::Sync`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/marker/trait.Sync.html) (if the inner
data's type implements `Sync`, too). It can safely do so, because it never provides mutable access.
That is similar to how
[`std::sync::Mutex`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/sync/struct.Mutex.html#impl-Sync-for-Mutex%3CT%3E)
implements `Sync`, too - except that `.

See a test [`src/lib.rs` -> `addresses_unique_between_const_and_ndd()`](src/lib.rs).

## Compatiblity

`ndd` doesn't need heap (`alloc`) and it's `no_std`-compatible. It compiles with `stable` Rust.

## Quality

Tested with

- `cargo +stable test`, and
- `cargo +nightly miri test` using [MIRI: Mid-level Intermediate Representation
  Interpreter](https://github.com/rust-lang/miri).

## Use cases

Used by
[`hash-injector::signal`](https://github.com/peter-lyons-kehl/hash-injector/blob/main/lib/src/signal.rs).

Commit message:

const_convert cargo feature; Docs

README.md, after:

#  ndd (Non-De-Duplicated)

## Problem

Rust (or, rather, LLVM) by default de-duplicates or reuses `static` data and its parts. For most
purposes that is good: The result binary is smaller, and because of more successful cache hits the
execution may be faster.

However, that is counter-productive when the code identifies/compares `static` data by reference
(whether a Rust reference/slice, or a pointer/pointer range). For example, an existing Rust/3rd
party API may accept ("ordinary") references/slices. You may want to extend that API's
protocol/behavior with signalling/special handling when the client sends in a designated `static` by
reference/slice/pointer/pointer range. Your special handler may cast such references/slices to
pointers and compare them by address with
[`core::ptr::eq`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/ptr/fn.eq.html).

But you don't want the client, nor the compiler/LLVM, to reuse/share the memory address of such a
designated `static` for any other ("ordinary") `static` or `const` values/expressions. That does
work out of the box when the client passes a reference/slice defined as `static`: It seems that
(with the default `release` optimizations) each static gets its own memory space. See a test
[`src/lib.rs` -> `addresses_unique_between_statics()`](src/lib.rs).

However, it is a problem (in release mode) with ("ordinary") `const` values/expressions that equal
in value to the designated `static`. Rust/LLVM uses the `static` address for references to the same
value defined as `const`. See a test [`src/lib.rs` ->
`addresses_not_unique_between_const_and_static()`](src/lib.rs).

## Solution

`ndd:NonDeDuplicated` uses
[`core::cell::Cell`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/cell/struct.Cell.html) to hold the data
passed in by the user. The only access it gives to the inner data is through shared references.
There is no mutation access. (If the inner data allows interior mutability, it can't implement
[`core::marker::Send`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/marker/trait.Send.html), and then
`NonDeDuplicated` doesn't implement `Send` either and it can't be stored in a `static`.)

Unlike `Cell` (and friends), `NonDeDuplicated` **does** implement
[`core::marker::Sync`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/marker/trait.Sync.html) (if the inner
data's type implements `Sync`, too). It can safely do so, because it never provides mutable access.
That is similar to how
[`std::sync::Mutex`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/sync/struct.Mutex.html#impl-Sync-for-Mutex%3CT%3E)
implements `Sync`, too.

See a test [`src/lib.rs` -> `addresses_unique_between_const_and_ndd()`](src/lib.rs).

## Compatibility

`ndd` doesn't need heap (`alloc`) and it's `no_std`-compatible. It compiles with `stable` Rust, unless you need `const_deref` feature.

### as_array_of_cells

Since Rust version 1.92 (on/around December 11, 2025), `ndd::NonDeDuplicated` will have function
`as_array_of_cells`, similar to Rust's `core::cell::Cell::as_array_of_cells` (which will become
stable in 1.92). If you need this earlier, get in touch. (We prefer not to introduce a temporary
cargo feature for this. Removing a feature later is a breaking change. And we don't want just to
make such a feature no-op and let it sit around either.)

## Quality

Tested with:

- `cargo +stable test`, and
- using [MIRI](https://github.com/rust-lang/miri):
  - `cargo +nightly miri test`
  - `cargo +nightly miri test  --features=const_convert`.

## Use cases

Used by
[`hash-injector::signal`](https://github.com/peter-lyons-kehl/hash-injector/blob/main/lib/src/signal.rs).
